---
layout: default
title: "An ENPH degree"
---

# 2018W-1 - ENPH Baptism



## CPEN 221
**_**

Section 101 - Sathish Gopalakrishnan - 80% / [74% Section Average](https://ubcgrades.com/#UBCV-2018W-CPEN-221-101)

CPEN 221 was one of my favorite courses at UBC. It covers various principles of software construction, including: abstraction, type hierarchies, verification, error handling, data types, with some algorithms and concurrency throw in. It's effectively the harder version of the Object Oriented Programming (OOP) course at UBC. Sathish really made the course special. He had an unconventional approach to the projects and exams. The six MP projects are quite intensive. The depth and scope of the problems you solve in each are significant. It makes for a challenging and somewhat satifying learning exercise. The another unique aspect to the course were the timing coding exams. You would have 75 minutes (or lesss) to complete 1-3 problems in an examination setting. These were difficult, as it is challenging to prepare for and easy to slip up in the exam and get zero. Additionally, weekly homeworks, 2 midterms and a final were added on top. Sathish's goal is to guanenteed everyone who passes the course has a minium standard of ability in software design. To pass you need to understand the material, and be able to apply in under pressure and in practical programming problems. CPEN 221 has earned the title of the most useful course at UBC. 


---

Back to [UBC Engineering Physics Degree 2017 - 2023]({% link enph_index.md %})